# Migrating from v2

DotFeather v3 is a version with many breaking changes; it is incompatible in many ways with v2.

This document will provide you with all the information you need to migrate from DotFeather v2 to v3.
Please read the new tutorial as well.

If you have any questions that are not covered here, feel free to ask them in the [discussion](https://github.com/Xeltica/DotFeather/discussions/categories/q-a)! (Or [email me](mailto:xeltica@gmail.com))

## Overall

DotFeather v3 makes it easier to write simpler programs by making the various systems singleton.

In v2, if you wanted to put the game logic into a separate class that was not GameBase or Router, you had to pass a GameBase instance to that class. In v3, the API has been redesigned so that various functions can be accessed from any part of the program via the `DF` static class.

## GameBase

In DotFeather v3, the `GameBase` abstract class has been removed.

Therefore, you need to change the way you write the game significantly from the game entry point.

### Summary

The minimal "Hello, world!" in v2 looked like this:

```cs
using DotFeather;

public class Game : GameBase
{
	public Game() : base(640, 480, "", 60) { }

	protected override void OnLoad(object sender, EventArgs e)
	{
		Print("Hello, world!");
	}

	static int Main()
	{
		return new Game().Run();
	}
}
```

If you rewrite the above program in v3, you will get this:

```cs
using DotFeather;

class Program
{
	static void Main()
	{
		DF.Window.Start += () =>
		{
			DF.Console.Print("Hello, world!");
		};

		return DF.Run();
	}
}
```

With C# 9:

```cs
DF.Window.Start += () =>
{
	DF.Console.Print("Hello, world!");
};

return DF.Run();
```

### Event Hooks

In v2, event hooks were used by overriding the `GameBase` class method, but in v3, most of them will be replaced by event handlers in the `DF.Window` property.

|Old Event Hooks|New Event Hooks|
|--|--|
|OnLoad|DF.Window.Start|
|OnUpdate|DF.Window.Update|
|OnUnload|(Deprecated)|
|OnFileDrop|DF.Window.FileDropped|
|OnResize|DF.Window.Resize|
|OnKeyPress|DFKeyboard.KeyPress|
|OnKeyDown|DFKeyboard.KeyDown|
|OnKeyUp|DFKeyboard.KeyUp|

### Other members

Many of the properties and methods defined in `GameBase` are defined in `DF.Window` and can be used without modification. However, there are some exceptions:

#### Console API

APIs to control the console, such as `Print`, are defined in `DF.Console`.

|Old|New|
|--|--|
|Print|DF.Console.Print|
|Cls|DF.Console.Cls|
|ConsoleSize|DF.Console.Size|
|ConsoleCursor|DF.Console.Cursor|
|ForegroundColor|DF.Console.TextColor|

#### その他

- The following members have been moved as static members of the `DF` static class:
	- `Run` method
	- `Exit` method
	- `NextFrame` method
	- `Root` property
- Renamed `Visible` property to `IsVisible`
- Renamed `Dpi` property to `PixelRatio`
- The `Random` `Randomize` properties have been deprecated. Use an instance of the class `System.Random` instead.
- The `StartCoroutine` `StopCoroutine` methods have been deprecated. Use `CoroutineRunner.Start` `CoroutineRunner.Stop` instead.
- The `Dispose` method has been deprecated.

## RoutingGameBase

If you are using `RoutingGameBase`, the transition is dead simple. All you have to do is rewrite the code to look like this

```cs
static void Main()
{
	DF.Start += () => DF.Router.ChangeScene<MyScene>();
	return DF.Run();
}
```

## IDrawable, IUpdatable, etc

`IDrawable`, `ISizedDrawable`, `IContainable` and `IUpdatable` are deprecated.

Instead, an `ElementBase` class was added with equivalent functionality. All previous drawable objects have been reimplemented as Elements that inherit from this `ElementBase`. If you are using any of the above obsolete interface type variables, replace them with `ElementBase` type variables.

Basically, it is not much different from the conventional usage. Here are a few differences.

- `Sprite.LoadFrom` and `NineSliceSprite.LoadFrom` methods have been deprecated
	- Use the constructor instead
- `NineSliceSplite` now uses the `Texture9Sliced` structure instead of the `Texture2D` array
- `Tilemap.CurrentDrawingPosition` property has been deprecated
- The definition of the `ITile` interface has been changed
- The `AnimatingSprite` class has been deprecated, so you will need to use the Sprite element and the newly added SpriteAnimator component instead For details, see [Sprite](. /elements/sprite.md) for details
- The `Angle` property has been deprecated. It will be restored when angle specification is officially implemented
- The `ZOrder` property has been deprecated. You need to reorder them manually
- The `TextureDrawableBase` abstract class has been deprecated

## Router API

The `Router` class is now private and can no longer be instantiated by the user.

Instead, the Router API is now available everywhere via the `DF.Router` property.

There are no breaking changes to the `Router` class itself, but there are some breaking changes to the `Scene` class.

- The `Scene.Random` property and the `Scene.Randomize` method have been deprecated.
	- Use an instance of the `System.Random` class instead
- Removed the `Router router, GameBase game` arguments from the `OnStart` `OnUpdate` `OnDestroy` methods arguments
	- Use the `DF` static class instead

## Misc

- Renamed `Font` `FontStyle` class to `DFFont` `DFFontStyle` class to avoid name collisions.
- Abolished the `TextureDrawer` static class.
	- Use the `DF.TextureDrawer` property instead

